## What is Envy?
Envy is typically a negative emotional response to a compared superior, where the envier either desires the compared position or wishes that the compared superior lacks that position. It is characterized by inferiority, hostility, and resentment caused by a comparison with those who possess something desired (Smith & Kim, 2007). In a longitudinal study, levels of envy fall as we age. Additionally, women experience envy slightly less than men (Mujcic & Oswald, 2018).

Modern research on envy revealed that envy is not one-dimensional and there exists a benign type of envy, which results in upward motivation (Crusius & Lange, 2014; Smith & Kim, 2007; Van de Ven, Zeelenberg, & Pieters, 2009). Envy can come in two forms: benign envy and malicious envy (Crusius & Lange, 2014). Benign envy is related to the motivation to move up and increases motivation to invest more effort to improve one’s own position. It lacks ill will. Malicious envy is related to pulling superior other down and increases the motivation to harm an envied person’s success. For example, in marathon runners, benign envy predicted faster race performance via higher goal setting while malicious envy predicted race goal disengagement (Lange & Crusius, 2014).

Benign envy occurs if the envied person’s advantage is subjectively deserved and the envier perceives high control over personal outcomes. However, malicious envy occurs when envied person’s advantage is evaluated as subjectively undeserved and the envier sees less control over personal outcomes (Van de Ven, Zeelenberg, & Pieters, 2011). Both forms of envy are measured to have equivalent levels of negative affect and frustration. Benign envy is typically predicted by hope for success and leads to motivation to achieve a higher standard.  In contrast, malicious envy is predicted by a motivation to avoid failure.
