## Data Overview
The data was received as the result of a multifaceted research study performed on Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk), a crowdsourcing website where workers can perform tasks unable to be completed by computers. The study largely consisted of a skills-based task (Raven’s Progressive Matrices) that was scored out of 17 points. Raven’s Progressive Matrices are a common test utilized to measure human intelligence. The task consists of multiple-choice questions where the participant identifies the missing pattern that completes the matrix. The goal of the task was to score more points than an opponent. After completion of the task, the research participant was presented with the score of an opponent that was higher than theirs and were told that their opponent either had or did not have an advantage over them in the exercise through random assignment. The condition with no advantage serves as the control group for this analysis.

In one part of study, the difference between the participant’s score and the opponent’s score was 2 points to emulate an achievable goal a participant can reach in the subsequent skills-based task. Another part of the study utilized a 5-point difference between the participant and the opponent to create a seemingly unachievable goal. This score comparison served to stimulate envy. After being presented with the upward comparison, the participants were asked to act upon the stimulated envy by either working to improve their own score by taking a short training course on how to best solve Raven’s Matrices (signaling benign envy) or deleting the opponent’s winning payoffs (a signal of malicious envy). In the data, benign envy action is denoted with 0 and malicious action is denoted with 1. If the participant chose the benign envy action, they were able to solve a second set of Raven’s Matrices to attempt to better their opponent. Participants choosing the malicious action skipped the second set of matrices and completed the study.

The studies also measured unconditional self-acceptance according to an inventory created by psychological researchers John M. Chamberlain and David A. F. Haaga. Both parts of these studies also inquired about the participant’s demographic background. Demographic measures included: age, gender, education, marital status, children, current employment, religion, and political belief.

There was evidence of one person artificially manipulating their score. Their observation was removed. The data was filtered to participants who answered the first two questions in the first set of matrices correctly, as they were the easiest questions. This limited the data to those participants who took the study earnestly. Cleaning the data resulted in the 2-point difference study totaling 158 observations, while the 5-point totaled 156. Combined, this research works with 314 total observations.
